what if your website could be your very
best customer service rep and save you
time and money turns out it can
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunny co-owner over at webb
webchoiceuk.com
and host the top 100 marketing podcast
business growth show if you haven't yet
check out my weekly email but i'm
sharing actual web and marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
goodies and much much more each and
every monday start your week off with a
bang by signing up today over at
business growth dot email typically
customer service reps have to deal with
all kinds of queries questions
frustrations or issues around your
product or your service they'll be
dealing with them via phone call or via
email and it might take up a bunch of
their time or might take up a bunch of
your time if you're a solopreneur
running your own company what if there
is an easier way to deal with them
saving you time or even money on hiring
all these staff turns out you can use
your website
to make your life easier and save you on
time and money so let's share exactly
how you can do it so what you want to do
is get together with whoever deals with
the customer service for your company
and
put together a list so this could be a
google doc it could be a word doc it
could be a spreadsheet whatever the heck
you want to do make a list of the common
questions you're getting time and again
every day every week put them all
together it could be 10 it could be 15
it could be 20. it could be a bit more
and against each one put a few bullet
points of how you can best attack the
best responses the best answers the best
objections to these points once you've
got your comprehensive list together
now i'm going to share how your website
can help you so what you could consider
is having a knowledge base maybe a
knowledge hub maybe a resources tab
under one of the main menu navigations
on your website and under that could be
a list of different options and we'll go
through some of those now so the first
one could be faq so frequently asked
questions where you quite literally have
a list of these questions that you've
laid out maybe each one is on a drop
down so you click the query and then a
detailed response shows so that way the
customer can literally go to that part
of the site
see if the question is there
get their answer job done on to the next
one saves you a call or saves you uh
email next up you could have video
guides or video walkthroughs now this is
going to be a bit more time and effort
as you'll have to record it at home
maybe on a webcam or maybe record it on
site depending on the complexity of your
solution or your product but
it's probably going to help you a bit
more in the long run because it can a
bit be a bit more personalized a bit
more detailed a bit more helpful it's
visual especially for people that like
to watch things rather than read so you
can literally explain that this is the
problem that you're facing this is
exactly how you can overcome it really
useful for more technical products or
solutions if you're doing screen shares
maybe you've got a software as a service
product or maybe you've got a physical
product you need to run through so
people can literally flick onto that
part of the site see the video guide and
again save your service team time the
next one is step-by-step guide so again
this could sit under a knowledge hub or
resource section tab of your website
they click the guide option and it's a
mix of the two we just talked about
really so it could be more of a flow
process so maybe have a five or six step
process with multiple choice where
someone can choose the issue from a
bunch of issues click the issue
maybe you've got step one are you seeing
this image it's got a graphic and a
question if yes proceed if no do this
and as they flow through the process
there's various options they can click
yes or no and eventually find the answer
to their problem so it's a mix of both
graphics and written text to help the
person address their issue next up is
live chat so this can either be a bot
where there's many many live chat bots
available we can actually have
predetermined
questions and answers so a bit like the
guide solution but on a live chat bot so
someone basically enters their issue or
picks from a range of issues on the chat
they take the next one and it says have
you done this have you tried that and
they picked the option it takes them to
the next one so basically it's a robot
that understands all these common issues
has the answers has the solutions that's
one way of doing it or you can have a
live chat that is manned by a customer
service representative of course that's
going to take up admin time but it does
save them time on the phone it saves
them having to mana phone so it's a
slightly more economical option so those
are the two choices you've got on live
chat or another option is to have a
ticket system so say someone's gone
through the faqs maybe they've tried the
video guys they've tried the
walkthroughs they've tried the live chat
nothing's working so you present the
option to raise a ticket where they can
put in their exact issue they'll explain
that they haven't found the answer on
the site and then that will get sent
through to your customer service team as
a last resort so they can check it out
and give them an email response so not
only will these tips save you time and
possibly money on customer service and
make your website a useful helpful
resource to build trust with your
customers and also delight them because
it's going to give them the answers that
they need it'll also help your seo your
search engine optimization because
you're making your website that useful
resource
you are quite literally answering the
common questions that people bring to
you all the time
so if over time people search these
queries on google it'll help your
website get a better position
giving them the answers they need and
helping them take the next step on your
site and there you have it i hope you
found this short and snappy episode on
how to make your website your best
customer service rep of use as always if
you're tuning in on the audio podcast a
quick rating is much appreciated or if
you're on youtube a quick subscribe i'd
be really really thankful for and with
that i shall catch you on the next
episode cheers